Add guide for migrating from the obsolete Packet provider (#72)
equinix/terraform-provider-metal: docs/guides/migration_guide_packet.md

---
page_title: "Migration Guide from terraform-provider-packet"
description: |-
  Migrating your templates from packet_ resources to metal_ resources with minimal disruption.
---

# Migrating from packethost/packet to equinix/metal

Packet is now Equinix Metal, and the name of the Terraform provider changed too. This (terraform-provider-metal, provider equinix/metal) is the current provider for Equinix Metal.

If you've been using terraform-provider-packet, and you want to use a newer provider version to manage resources in Equinix Metal, you will need to change the references in you hcl files. You can just change the names of the resources, e.g. from `packet_device` to `metal_device`. That should work, but it will cause the `packet_device` to be destroyed and new `metal_device` to be created instead. Re-creation of the resources might be undesirable, and this guide shows how to migrate to metal_ resources without the re-creation. We can use terraform state and import to achieve transition without destroying users' resources in Equinix Metal.

> ## Existing template

Reviewer: Before starting, they should update to the latest packet provider, to get around any other migration issues, like packet_device_network_type, hardware reservation id (if that would be an issue).

Reviewer: Maybe they should update to the latest Terraform version first, too (we don't have to describe how this is done, just advise them to do so and follow Hashicorps guides on that).

Or maybe upgrading Terraform versions complicates things and we don't need that?

Will users run into problems if they don't upgrade first? Their is some minimal version that is needed before using out of tree providers without manual install, right? Was that 0.11 or 0.12?

Author: I think the tree providers was 0.13. https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-13.html#explicit-provider-source-locations

  plan             = "c3.medium.x86"
  operating_system = "ubuntu_20_04"
  hostname         = "test"
  billing_cycle    = "hourly"

  ip_address {
    type            = "public_ipv4"
    cidr            = 31
    reservation_ids = [packet_reserved_ip_block.example.id]
  }

  ip_address {
    type = "private_ipv4"
  }
}
```

## Resource UUIDs

In order to transition to provider equinix/metal, we need to find out UUIDs of all the resources we want to migrate. In this case `packet_reserved_ip_block.example` and `packet_device.example`. We can use `terraform state` to find out the UUIDs.

For the reserved IP block:

```
$ terraform state show packet_reserved_ip_block.example
# packet_reserved_ip_block.example:
resource "packet_reserved_ip_block" "example" {
	[...]
    id = "e689072f-aa6e-4d51-8e37-c2fbe18b4ff0"
	[...]
}
```

For the device:

```
$ terraform state show packet_device.example
# packet_device.example
resource "packet_device" "example" {
	[...]
    id = "8eb3bc10-0e1a-476a-aec2-6dc699df9c1c"
	[...]

```

## Migrated template

Once we find out the UUIDs of resources to migrate, in the HCL template, we need to change:
 
* the required_providers block to require equinix/metal

> * the names of the resources to corresponding resoruces from provider quinix/etal (sed 's/packet_/metal_')

Reviewer: typos: resources, equinix/metal
```suggestion
* the names of the resources to corresponding resources from provider equinix/metal (sed 's/packet_/metal_')
```

* all the references to packet_ resources to metal_ resources

The modified template will then look as

```hcl-terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    metal = {
      source = "equinix/metal"
      version = "2.0.1"
    }
  }
}

resource "metal_reserved_ip_block" "example" {
  project_id = local.project_id
  facility   = "sv15"
  quantity   = 2
}

resource "metal_device" "example" {
  project_id       = local.project_id
  facilities       = ["sv15"]
  plan             = "c3.medium.x86"
  operating_system = "ubuntu_20_04"
  hostname         = "test"
  billing_cycle    = "hourly"

  ip_address {
    type            = "public_ipv4"
    cidr            = 31
    reservation_ids = [metal_reserved_ip_block.example.id]
  }

  ip_address {
    type = "private_ipv4"
  }
}
```

## Migrating Terraform state

Once we changed the template accordingly, we can remove the old packet_ resources from Terraform state and import the new ones as metal_ resources by their UUIDs.

> From checking the state before, we remember that UUID of the packet_device.xample is 8eb3bc10-0e1a-476a-aec2-6dc699df9c1c, and UUID of the packet_reserved_ip_block.example is e689072f-aa6e-4d51-8e37-c2fbe18b4ff0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From checking the state before, we remember that UUID of the packet_device.example is 8eb3bc10-0e1a-476a-aec2-6dc699df9c1c, and UUID of the packet_reserved_ip_block.example is e689072f-aa6e-4d51-8e37-c2fbe18b4ff0.
```

> From checking the state before, we remember that UUID of the packet_device.xample is 8eb3bc10-0e1a-476a-aec2-6dc699df9c1c, and UUID of the packet_reserved_ip_block.example is e689072f-aa6e-4d51-8e37-c2fbe18b4ff0.

Reviewer: I imagine they will have to run `terraform init -upgrade` somewhere in this guide.

 In the terraform state and import commands, we use the resource type and name, separated by dot:

```
$ terraform state rm packet_reserved_ip_block.example
$ terraform import metal_reserved_ip_block.example e689072f-aa6e-4d51-8e37-c2fbe18b4ff0
$ terraform state rm packet_device.example
$ terraform import metal_device.example 8eb3bc10-0e1a-476a-aec2-6dc699df9c1c
```

You can verify the migration by running `terraform plan`, it should show that infrastructure is up to date.

## Resolving migration issues

When we run `terraform plan` to verify that migration was successful, terraform might warn that some resource attributes from HCL are not aligned with imported state. It's because not all of the resource attribute can be computed, for example the `ip_address` blocks in packet_device are user-defined and will result to a diff against downloaded imported state.

> In case of the `ip_address`, consequent `terraform apply` will update the local state without changing the upstream resource, but if there's an attribute which will cause upstream update, you will need to resolve it manually, either chaning your HCL, or letting Terraform change the resource in Equinix Metal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of the `ip_address`, consequent `terraform apply` will update the local state without changing the upstream resource, but if an attribute causes an upstream update, you will need to resolve it manually, either changing your HCL, or letting Terraform change the resource in Equinix Metal.
```
